[THEME MUSIC]
>>REGINA MEREDITH: Every
one of us is aware by now
that there is an
invisible structure,
a blueprint to all that
we see and interact with.
This field of intelligence
creates a type of balance
that keeps our material
world in order.
This was well known
by the ancients,
but this story has been obscured
by modern academia and religion.
Dr. Ibrahim Karim
is going to bring
the magic of this
realm and the threats
to it that are undermining it
into full view with us today,
and we're going on a wild ride,
I'm telling you right now.
Welcome.
>>IBRAHIM KARIM:
Thank you, Regina.
>>REGINA: Yeah, it's
lovely having you.
>>KARIM: I'm very happy
to be with you here.
>>REGINA: We've been
talking off camera,
and my head is about
to explode, OK?
So I have to lay
that out right now.
So what I'm trying
to do is you live
in a dimensional world that is
full of resonance and geometry.
And you are seeing
the blueprint to life.
You lived there.
And I'm trying to
take your brain
and force you to
reduce it into a realm
that we can understand
ourselves, our home
life, our families, why we go
to sacred sites on vacation.
So I'm asking you,
bear with me while I
keep trying to bring you into
what I think some of the viewers
might be intensely
curious about.
>>KARIM: My wife is doing that
all the time with me, you know?
>>REGINA: I'm sure she is.
>>KARIM: Tried to
bring me down here.
>>REGINA: Yes.
I'm going to try to
keep you grounded.
So just give us an explanation
in your mind what you're seeing.
What you see when you look
at life in terms of geometry.
And then we're going to take it
down to autism and linearness,
corners, domes, round
spaces, sacred architecture,
and so forth.
But how do you see the
world walking around?
>>KARIM: Well, I see
the unity of creation
as a resonating,
multidimensional system.
Now this unity of
creation, in the beginning,
I thought if it's resonating,
then it cannot be bound to what
we know about resonance
frequency because all that is
mathematically broken down and
all that into octaves and then
minor things and all that.
I thought there must be
a seamless information
exchange in the whole universe.
So I found something else, and
that's the resonance of shape.
It seamlessly connects
everything from zero
to infinity.
So all of a sudden
now, to me, the moment
you concentrate on shape,
you're into right brained,
multidimensional perception.
>>REGINA: That's interesting.
So that's our gateway
is geometry and shape.
>>KARIM: If you just look at the
shape of something, of this cup,
the moment you see the beauty
of the shape of this cup,
you're already in this
multidimensional--
>>REGINA: Reality, really.
>>KARIM: Yeah.
But information exchanging,
it's a multidimensional unity
actually.
>>REGINA: So that's
why when people
look at their mandalas
or their Sri Yantras
with this beautiful
geometry, they'll
find they're maybe very, very
drawn to one but not another.
Maybe they like the
pyramidal or diamond shapes,
and another person really just
likes the circular shapes.
Do we just follow our
instincts with what shapes
we want to engage with then?
>>KARIM: Well, usually,
shapes are qualities.
When you have a
prism, a glass prism
like that, light
goes through it.
You get colors.
Now colors are a
result of angles.
That means angles are qualities
because colors are qualities.
And shapes are angles actually.
Angles are the
component of shape.
So all shapes are
frozen qualities.
So you have all the qualities of
the universe translated to you
as shapes.
>>REGINA: So when we're
looking at these sacred pieces
of artwork or
paintings, we're really
doing it because we want to
move into an understanding
or an experience in a
multidimensional reality.
>>KARIM: Yes.
It all pulls you,
any shape, which
pulls you into
multidimensionality
because in the background,
it is in resonance
with all similar shapes, in
all dimensions of creation.
Shapes do not
exist individually.
Imagine shapes from the
smallest to the largest.
It exists in an
intercommunicative system
but a unified one.
>>REGINA: But maybe even
embedded within each other or
morphing from one to another?
>>KARIM: Well, they all
somehow, all shapes somehow
come out of a vortex because
the archetypal dimension,
and that's the first
dimension before duality.
Because when duality is
created, it cannot be created
haphazardly.
It has to be created with
laws and archetypal dimension.
And this archetypal
dimension, this
is what we call the primordial
ocean between divinity
and duality.
In this ocean, you
have all the archetypes
of consciousness, time,
and shape, and all that.
Now from there, the archetypes
come down in a sort of a vortex.
A vortex means you get a center,
a multidimensional center.
And the interesting thing
is the center of everything,
of all shape is actually coming
from the heart dimension, that
means where zero is
equal to infinity.
That's before time and space.
But then the center expands,
and creation happens within it
because everything is pulsating.
So the pulse expands.
In it, you have duality
and then comes down.
But then that means the
center and the container
are nothing and everything.
>>REGINA: OK.
So from there--
All right, now that's a
little abstract and wonderful.
But now what we'll do is we'll
start taking these shapes
very specifically because
you were talking about,
just a little bit
ago before we started
rolling camera, about autism,
for example, and angles.
>>KARIM: We have done a
lot of research on autism.
I'm a professor of
architecture, and I
supervise doctor's degrees
and PhDs for the past 25 years
or more than that.
BioGeometry is 50 years
old now, PhDs and all that.
Lots of those PhDs have to
be in the relationship of how
to use shapes, to harmonize
let's say depression, autism,
and things like
that through shape.
>>REGINA: Yes.
And we want to hear shapes.
>>KARIM: Now how--
In the research for autism,
I'm doing a big project
for special abilities in Egypt.
And so I started researching
when I put a child in a square
room, when you have an
angle, a 90-degree angle,
whether you're on that
side or on the other side,
it creates tension in the brain.
Now this is not just
for the autistic brain.
It does that on any human being.
>>REGINA: OK.
Explain why a corner creates
tension because this,
I'm really into
this, by the way.
And then we're going to
go somewhere from there.
>>KARIM: A corner
creates tension.
If you stand in the
corner, there is tension.
Or on the other side
in front of a corner,
it creates tension in
a certain distance.
But let's say you're
standing away.
And you look at
that spot, you still
get the tension
because of resonance.
>>REGINA: Why does a right
angle create tension?
>>KARIM: Somehow, this had to
do with the quality of energy,
quality of angles.
So the quality of
angle in a corner,
it has a very
strong carrier wave.
You can use it to send
information in places
to right angles or like that,
like a shooting arrow aspect.
You know that in
Chinese, we are thinking
they call it shooting arrow
because the energy comes out
like coming out of an arrow.
>>REGINA: Out of the tip.
>>KARIM: It's a carrier wave.
You can put information
on it and send it.
>>REGINA: So why would
being the presence
of this angle with
the carrier wave
create tension in our psyche.
>>KARIM: Because it's strong.
It hits you.
If it's well-balanced, you
see, then it won't create it.
>>REGINA: I always
thought maybe it's
almost like information
or energy gets
trapped in right angles.
It doesn't have anywhere
to flow or move from.
>>KARIM: In a way.
You see, it's not trapped,
but it's concentrated.
>>REGINA: Concentrated.
>>KARIM: Concentrated
and then shot out.
So this causes
tension in the brain.
But there are ways of designing.
Yes, those angles.
For example, you
can put a quarter
of a circle in the angle, and
then there's no problem at all.
>>REGINA: Well, let's go
to that because then you
know this because you were
trained in the German school
system.
You're aware of Rudolf Steiner.
>>KARIM: Yes.
>>REGINA: And one of the things
in that system of education
is you don't expose young
children until the age of 8
or 9, as I recall,
by having them work
on a square piece of paper.
No right angles.
They're all round.
The pages are all rounded.
So let's talk about
what happens since when
you round the angles in a
room or on a piece of paper,
painting.
>>KARIM: I'll tell you
something which is surprising.
Now we tested all
rectangular shapes,
and they produce
stress on the brain.
So we tested round shapes
and put the autistic children
in round shapes.
They created tension
in the brain too.
So here we have,
this doesn't work.
>>REGINA: Round shapes
created tension.
>>KARIM: Round
shapes created that.
So round shapes have to be
also, they have to be corrected.
So I tried to find
which is the ideal angle
for the autistic brain.
>>REGINA: And what is it?
>>KARIM: I wanted to get the
autistic child all of a sudden
to open up his tension
and see the world the way
we see it, at least
with an angle.
People didn't believe that
you could just put an angle
and change his perceptions.
And we found that
in by geometry,
we had patented a shape many
years ago that has to do,
it's 135 degrees.
So when you make a
shape of 135 degrees,
let's say the angle
of an octagon.
>>REGINA: I was just
going to ask you,
you were talking octagonal.
Yeah.
>>KARIM: Yeah.
The angle of an octagon.
This is the one that puts
most relaxation in the mind
of an autistic child
and in a human being.
>>REGINA: Well, because
a lot of the sacred,
like in little temples
and such historically
have at that center part,
it's octagonal often times.
>>KARIM: Yeah.
Even the domes.
In the domes, when
they come down,
you will find that they end
up octagonal, square, and all
that before they end
up in the last shapes.
>>REGINA: That was like
the last house I lived in.
Everyone loved being in there.
>>KARIM: Yeah.
You find that they are corrected
through this transitional shape
of octagon.
So the octagon is the
transitional shape
between the square
and the circle.
And it is the most,
let's say, relaxing
shape for the autistic brain.
But we are all
somehow not normal.
Who says--
>>REGINA: They're just a more
exaggerated version of tension
to what we are.
>>KARIM: I don't see
any of us being normal,
so we all enjoy being
in an octagonal shape.
What I did was I designed
the project in Egypt
based on those shapes.
But you know, to have
the government understand
what I'm doing because my
geometry seems to many people
to be a bit strange, I
built an octagonal shape,
and the roof was sort
of going around up
like this in a sort of
dome-like structure like this
with octagons.
And I told the
centers for autism
to bring the children with the
doctors and the supervisors,
and put them in there,
and let them play in there
and see what happens.
Because I said the proof in
the cake is in eating it.
And they brought them there.
And I can tell you
stories that are endless.
>>REGINA: Tell us one.
Just give us an anecdote of
what happened to even one.
>>KARIM: Well, I'll give
you two opposite ones.
A child who was hyperactive,
and the instructor
was holding this little
boy from the hand.
I said, why hold him?
Let him play.
He said, no, if I leave
him, he's going to run.
We won't be able to catch him.
And before we go to the ship,
the child pulls his hand away,
keeps running around and
around, and they run after.
And then they catch him.
They bring him into
the octagonal shape
to sit to the others.
And then there are cubes there.
So he looks at the cubes, and he
starts playing with the cubes.
And then after 10 minutes,
he smiles and is happy
and then goes to one
of the instructors,
and he sleeps on her lap.
>>REGINA: Amazing.
>>KARIM: And he's asleep.
Another child who
is autistic and has
all those tensions and
those cramps and all you
see with autistic children.
He goes in there.
And after 10 minutes,
he starts being normal.
And he looks at people.
He sees the world
without tension.
He's very happy there.
And then he manages.
There's no spastic
movements and things.
They all sort of move away.
Now the mothers told
us that after being
1.5 hours in the
shape, he went home,
and he was normal for 24 hours.
And that's when they
asked me if it's
possible to design a mini
shape that they could hang up
in the room of an
autistic child.
>>REGINA: OK.
And you.
>>KARIM: I designed this shape.
Yes.
We didn't put it
into production yet,
but we did a lot of testing
with it because if people
put a lamp inside it or
something like that and use it.
So we have to do
a lot of testing.
But we have those shapes.
We design now carpets, textiles.
All our products in BioGeometry
now, they have one standard,
and they have to balance the
mind of an autistic child.
>>REGINA: OK.
So let me ask you this.
So let's say a person takes
their autistic child home who
lives in a square room, say
a 12 by 12-foot square room,
can't you place, for example,
stones into an octagonal
pattern?
And can that be set
up where they just
communicate and create?
>>KARIM: It will help.
It will help if you put--
you see, you can put things
in the corner one way.
Just putting anything
in the corner,
so it will break the corner.
The child will feel a
bit better in there.
But when we do
BioGeometry designs,
we go, of course, much deeper.
We have courses teaching people
the principles of BioGeometry
design and all that.
So it's not just an
octagon because an octagon
is a fairly stable
shape like that.
No.
We put some dynamic
action into it.
You know, like you have
the teepees of the Indians.
Many of them are octagonal.
But the way those
poles come up together,
they create a sort
of rotation a bit.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
They're slightly,
like they're twisting.
>>KARIM: So you can't say
that the teepee is an octagon.
No.
It is actually creating--
>>REGINA: A movement,
an octagon in movement.
>>KARIM: Yeah.
And this movement sort of clears
your brain, and your energy,
and things like that.
>>REGINA: OK.
So while we're on
this roll then,
a lot of people
watching this right now
are very connected to
having personal pyramids,
going to the pyramids.
And your background,
of course, is Egyptian.
You understand the nature
of these pyramids well.
So let's talk about what
happens when you go into
or when you sit-in front
of a pyramidal structure
and what that
should be used for.
>>KARIM: Well, let's start,
what's a pyramidal structure?
A pyramidal structure
is the last stage
of how humanity interacted
with sacred power spots.
>>REGINA: Sacred power spots.
OK.
>>KARIM: Sacred power spots.
At the dawn of
humanity, they used
to watch animals go
to sacred power spots
because they had sacred
springs or water.
So humans used to go there.
And then they start
in the beginning
of feeling this energy because
they were more right-brained,
like animals and all that.
So they saw the
light in those areas.
And then what they did,
they brought huge granite--
>>REGINA: Yes, stones.
>>KARIM: Stones.
Because granite has
quartz crystals.
And they would radiate the
energy of the sacred power spots
to larger areas.
So the whole community
living around it
would benefit from this energy.
And then they found
also that if they
pointed at it from a distance,
somehow they got the light.
So rituals were developed in
relation to sacred power spots.
Now the second thing they did,
which shows a lot of knowledge,
they erected two megalithic
stones and one across.
Imagine each one is 40 tons.
So they did that.
But the thing is they
always pointed the opening
to the equinoxes, east-west.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>KARIM: Now I want
to measure why that?
I found when you take two
shapes and you point them
in this direction,
all of a sudden,
the sacred energy
of the power spots
shoots all the way to both
equinoxes, to the east and west.
That means it then connects
to the cycle of life.
So you're connecting the sacred
power spot to the cycle of life
through a gateway that
we call now the dolmen.
Then they came later and
put on it, they put earth.
So it became a
chamber in a mound.
So that is the sacred mound.
>>REGINA: And that's
what most people watching
this know of dolmens, are these
sacred domes around the world.
>>KARIM: Well, first, now
it's just an earth mound.
>>REGINA: Yeah, an earth mound.
>>KARIM: And then later on,
the mound becomes a pyramid.
And so the pyramid is
actually, the chamber in there
is a dolmen connecting
the cycle of life
and basically connecting
with the life force
because the sacred
power spot is results
from an intersection of two,
let's say, underwater currents,
but not any water.
Water moving in the rocks.
This is a very special kind of
water that moves in the rocks.
And when they cross,
they create a vortex.
Now when they
create this vortex,
what happens with this water?
It connects physical
water through resonance
to the primordial ocean or
the primordial dimension.
So you get a sacred
power spot that
takes you multidimensionally
up even beyond duality.
>>REGINA: So what
happens then now
when the Egyptians and other
cultures around the world,
Central, South America, and on,
and on started creating then,
you have the initial
structure, and then they
start creating the stones.
So they intersect
into this geometrical.
>>KARIM: Well, first
of all, now you
have the dolmen, the chamber.
Now, whether it's a
hemispherical earth
mound or a pyramid
shape, these shapes
are known, if you build
a pyramid or hemisphere,
they create what we call
a very strong carrier
wave that they created towards
the base, from the apex
to the base.
Now this very
strong carrier wave
amplifies the energy of
the sacred power spot,
amplifies it to a huge extent.
That's why the word pyramid.
Pyrrha means fire.
So the pyramid is
actually a central fire
of the sacred energy.
>>REGINA: So it's
shooting it out.
>>KARIM: From the top
and from the bottom.
But the thing is what
are you amplifying?
You're amplifying the sacred
energy of the sacred path.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>KARIM: Now you use it in
architecture on a spot that
doesn't have sacred energy.
And then you have a problem
because you're amplifying
whatever energy in the space.
Pyramids, ancient
statues, obelisks
are made as part of
a sacred power spot.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>KARIM: Now in
BioGeometry, we teach
you, when you create
a pyramid, or a dome,
or something like that, we have
to geometrically make the shape,
create its own power spots
under it, so that you can use it
in architecture in
different areas that
don't have a sacred power spot.
>>REGINA: Let's say we
go to a new age show,
and we bring back our
nice little metal pyramid,
and we put it in our
apartment in New York City.
>>KARIM: OK, now we have--
>>REGINA: Now we have a problem?
>>KARIM: Yeah.
What you do, the easiest
thing, is do the solution
they have in the great pyramid.
You have your pyramids.
On the middle of each side, you
make a small scratch pointing
to the apex to the top.
>>REGINA: OK.
>>KARIM: So you've created
an eight-sided star.
The eight-sided star cancels the
harmful effects of the pyramids.
>>REGINA: OK.
That's a good roll back.
>>KARIM: Another
one is if you're
designing the pyramid
from the beginning,
then don't look at the angle of
the sides like everybody does.
They measure the
angles of the side.
No geometrical shapes.
You're measuring the angles
of the linear corners.
So you take two corners
of the pyramid like that.
When they meet, they
should meet at 90 degrees.
When the two corners
meet at 90 degrees,
in Belgium, we call that
the perfect pyramid.
Because if you have 90 degrees
here and two lines coming down
like that, the diagonal
becomes the square root of 2.
A square root of 2
is an endless number
that creates its own
vertex and the pyramid.
>>REGINA: So it's safe- safely
contained within itself.
>>KARIM: Yes.
And then, because
the square root of 2
has two diagonals, square root
of 2 connected to the apex,
they create a spiritual vortex.
>>REGINA: OK.
>>KARIM: So if you are
designing your own pyramid--
>>REGINA: Make sure
it's 90 degrees corners.
>>KARIM: Two
corners, 90 degrees.
It creates a power
spot under it.
>>REGINA: OK.
Now what about the ziggurat?
What about the pyramids in Egypt
and elsewhere that are stepped?
What are they doing?
>>KARIM: No.
There are many ways of
interacting with the pyramid,
but the main thing it
starts is the chamber.
>>REGINA: OK.
The chamber inside.
>>KARIM: The soul
of every pyramid
is the chamber that
connects to the equinoxes
and that connects the
pyramid to the cycle of life.
Because to understand
ancient shapes,
it will take us to another
topic, and that is today,
we use energy, fossil fuels,
electric energy, and all that.
These are very limited energies.
99.9% of the energy that fuels
everything in the universe
is life force.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>KARIM: It makes
the planets rotate.
Imagine how much energy you
need to make the planets rotate.
So life force is
your main energy.
It is alive.
Imagine an energy
you can speak to.
It is alive.
When you pray, you're actually
speaking to life force.
You're asking it, and it will
do it because the universe,
life force means universal
mind, life, consciousness,
everything in one, and the
huge power that animates
everything in the universe.
Now imagine a civilization
that is so advanced
that it must recognize life
force as its main fuel.
So if you are thinking
about ancient Egypt,
don't think about
they're trying to create
magnetism, electricity,
or something like that.
To them, they'd laugh at you.
The ancient priests?
No.
They are actually
using life force
as their main propeller
of everything.
The animator, the
universal animator.
And when you use life
force as your fuel,
everything becomes alive.
>>REGINA: So when you say using
life force, if you're using it,
that means there's a place that
it's kind of been aggregated
or captured.
Is this within the
architecture of places,
or are you doing it
mostly with your own mind?
>>KARIM: When you're
moving your hands,
what energy are you using?
>>REGINA: Life force, I guess.
Yeah.
And there's always
movement, circular.
>>KARIM: When you speak.
But when you understand
me and I understand you,
that's still life force because
that's the consciousness.
When you think, that's
the universal mind
within the life force giving
you one of its attributes.
And that's why you think.
>>REGINA: Right.
So now when you're
talking, going back
into your Egyptian sacred
spots, sacred architecture,
those were taking life
force into consideration,
and they were
generators of life force
or simply places you could
easily access life force?
How did that work?
>>KARIM: Life force went
into everything in life.
Everything you
said, every letter
had to activate life force.
That's why when they
did their miracles,
they used the power of the word.
That's what's called hekau.
Hekau means the word
that changes things.
So they knew, for example,
the word rrr, rrr.
They knew that rrr
interacts with life force
and creates a carrier wave.
>>REGINA: OK.
>>KARIM: So every
letter they used
was a way of accessing a
function of the life force.
So language became putting
the life force in work.
Now, every movement you
did, when I hold this cup,
whether I hold it that way,
or that way, or that way,
it makes a difference.
When I move my
fingers, my hands,
everything makes a difference.
You should do it in resonance
with the proper life force.
So life force becomes the
dimension in which you live,
because you live in it.
We are not aware
that life force is
the background of all the
multidimensionality we have.
It's the background that
animates everything.
And we, just because we
don't see this background,
science called it a void.
A nothing.
How can it be a nothing?
>>REGINA: Like black
holes are nothing?
They just suck--
>>KARIM: Yeah.
You call them nothing, but
who says they're nothing?
>>REGINA: Exactly.
>>KARIM: Yeah.
Because we are living in an
electromagnetic universe,
at the speed of light.
So everything, the beginning
is always the Big Bang.
It's the beginning.
Or the zero point
field is the beginning.
All those are not beginning.
All these are end stages.
Because when you start
from the level of divinity
where zero is equal to infinity,
the speed is very high.
And then you go down, down.
You're going down, slowly
down, all the way down,
down until you reach
the speed of light.
At the speed of light,
what do you get?
Sparks.
Every spark is a universe.
Every spark is a Big Bang.
But it's a late
stage of creation.
Your emotions are not in the
electromagnetic dimension.
Your mental energy is not in
the electromagnetic dimension
because electromagnetic
dimension means linear time.
Now your emotions don't
work by linear time.
Your thoughts don't
That means they are higher than
the electromagnetic dimension.
And they can take you into
multidimensional time,
which is beyond linear time.
>>REGINA: OK, now we're
getting to another area.
Let me start there.
So for example, movement.
You showed me with a cup
when we were off camera,
that if you turn it this way,
is it clockwise eight times?
>>KARIM: Eight notches.
Eight notches clockwise and
three notches anticlockwise.
Just even numbers, clockwise.
Odd numbers, anticlockwise.
>>REGINA: And then what happens?
>>KARIM: You get a bidirectional
vortex that connects you
to higher dimension.
Bidirectional vortex means
mental and emotional,
like the shape of DNA.
You get this vortex connecting
you to a higher dimension.
That means the cup now connects
you to a sort of hybrid time.
Linear and
multidimensional time.
It connects the linear time
of your sensory perception
to the multidimensional
time of your subconscious,
of the heart intellect.
Heart intellect is on
multidimensional time.
>>REGINA: OK.
Now you also showed me
something else that was similar.
A movement of your head.
>>KARIM: Yes.
>>REGINA: Now let's show
us the movement you did
and explain it in
which direction
you're moving your head
and what this is doing.
>>KARIM: Well, when you
move your head this way
or any circular
motion, or let's say
you move your hands that way.
>>REGINA: What
about your eyeballs?
>>KARIM: Yeah.
You can move your
eyeballs that way.
You'll feel it.
Move your eyeballs like
this, and you feel--
>>REGINA: When you move
it in a circular motion.
>>KARIM: You're going
into this other dimension.
What happens?
I mean, you say,
OK, well, so what?
I just do this.
No.
The life force in its
full dimensionality,
the way it runs all the
functions of your body
is activated in full
when you connect
into its multidimensional time.
Because otherwise,
it's just an aspect
of life force in linear
time that we have.
But when you connect
to the source,
this is where
healing energy really
exists in your subconscious.
So you don't know, you're just
rolling your eyes like this
or moving your head like this.
Or when you walk like this,
you do your hands a bit,
any type of rotation.
The ancient Egyptians,
they had linear time.
Of course, they knew it.
But they had another
aspect of circular time,
and they used to
call that, nehneh.
And today in Arabic,
when we say nehneh,
it means-- when you do
this, when you do this,
you say nehneh.
Because Egyptian Arabic
has so many words
from the ancient
Egyptian language in it.
So when you do this,
usually, before you
start doing any work sometimes,
you put yourself at ease
like this, and you--
>>REGINA: Yeah.
I think for meditation,
it would be ideal.
>>KARIM: Because you
know, in meditation,
instead of taking
the time of going in,
here you're already there.
>>REGINA: I like anything
that's efficient.
>>KARIM: Well, you know, at my
age, you become a lazy Egyptian.
You don't want to do
things that take time.
I want everything like this.
And so just do this,
and you're in it.
>>REGINA: And so then you're
able to access reality
beyond our understood
linear time and space.
>>KARIM: It's when you do this,
the subconscious is activated,
and you get this sort of
intuitive aspect of doing
the right thing.
>>REGINA: OK.
So now, believe it or not, we
have about 10 minutes left.
We're having so much fun.
So let's go into the
notion you've done this.
You're going into it.
You want to see maybe
a little glimpse
of why something's going on.
And even an infinity loop,
that's kind of crazy.
And you're opening up your
connection to the subconscious
and non-linear time and
maybe going into what
we consider a past incarnation.
>>KARIM: OK.
>>REGINA: So let's
momentarily talk
from your perspective about what
reincarnation and karma actually
are.
>>KARIM: Well, we have
to explain everything
in the linearity
of time and space.
So when you explain anything you
have to say before and after,
cause and effect,
life and death.
The problem with this,
it creates tension.
Because when you see polarities
like that, tension is created.
Now from a
multidimensional aspect,
the linearity is
not from A to B.
It's a center that
creates AB and back.
That's how one linear axis
in multidimensional space is.
You see it here from one
direction to the other.
In reality there, the
end and the beginning
are two faces of one coin.
So your moment of birth
and your moment of death
are interconnected
through your whole life,
and they affect each other.
We do lots of
exercises like this,
how to show that the end
affects the beginning.
We have lots of
exercises in BioGeometry,
but we don't have time
now to go into that.
>>REGINA: Let's say you're
seeing in yourself almost
a pattern.
You're wondering where
a pattern has come from.
Say a woman who has
an emotional pattern
of being a doormat to
the people around her.
And she's depressed, and she's
always laying herself down
before everyone.
And now let's look at that
from what could be considered
a reincarnation point of view.
>>KARIM: OK.
Well, look at it that way.
The impulse, because resonance
has to start with an impulse.
The impulse has to
start from here.
So she, at a certain moment,
behaved in such a way
or created an impulse here in
this life of being a doormat.
They created this
impulse in one action.
Now the next time
she faces an action,
there's an automatism
in the brain,
so she'll automatically
repeat it again.
Now the problem is not
just repeating it again.
This action here will be in
resonance on her subconscious
level with similar actions
that exists multidimensionally
on the subconscious level.
There is no before,
after, or present.
You could be here in
the future, in the past.
At the same time you
could be an individual,
you could be collective
at the same time.
It's a multidimensional state.
>>REGINA: So the
energy of doormat
has been somewhere
spun into motion.
>>KARIM: Yeah.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>KARIM: It goes
there, and then it
goes into similar doormat
presences throughout time
and space throughout history.
And so there might be
somewhere, the typical doormat
in history or something.
So you take that aspect
from that personality.
You don't take the
whole personality.
That personality might
be a genius musician.
You don't take that.
>>REGINA: We're just
looking at the one area.
Yeah.
>>KARIM: You just take
the doormat aspect,
and then you think,
that was my incarnation.
Now it can't be your incarnation
because beyond time and space,
everything exists
at the same time.
But here, it gets translated
into a phase in your life.
Now this phase in your life
is part of your evolution.
So all what you think
are past incarnations
are actually steps of
evolution in this life.
They're steps of
But those criteria that
you are in resonance with,
they connect you to other
lives of other people.
But on the other side,
they're all simultaneous.
So you're affecting them as
much as they are affecting you.
So you exist in their
evolution, and they
exist in your evolution.
>>REGINA: OK.
So now, you've decided
this is not functional
and working for you anymore.
You want to make a
change in that pattern.
And maybe you've
even attracted people
all through history or whatever,
nonlinear time and space,
into your reality that
take advantage of doormats.
>>KARIM: Well, that's
very easy to do, you know.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>KARIM: I tell you,
usually, you get--
>>REGINA: And I only bring
that up to the notion of karma
if it goes too far.
>>KARIM: You get
this automatism.
It keeps happening.
So you want to actually
not let the linear cause
and effect keep
repeating itself here.
You want to let the
multidimensional space, the life
force, come in and
harmonize this action.
So what do you do?
The next time you
get a situation,
completely stop for a
moment before reacting.
Let's say in general,
let's say I have--
>>REGINA: That allows the
light force to come in, right?
>>KARIM: Let's say I have a weak
nature and aggressive nature.
Every time something
happens, I'm going to use,
whether I'm weak
or aggressive, I'm
going to use that
aspect every time.
But the person in front of me,
sometimes this nature will help.
Sometimes, it will not help.
But I'm using the same one
with every type of person.
So the thing is, if I decide now
when something happens, I just
stagnate, stop for instance.
When you stop, for instance,
something happens that's in you.
You're used to.
Now I want to react, but
you're stopping yourself
from the action.
At that moment, this lifeforce,
this harmonizing aspect
comes in, but it
is environmental.
It's not just you.
So it will assess the situation.
It will assess what's the
right way of acting here.
So you might decide, the
proper way in this situation
is I act as a doormat.
Or no.
The proper way is
to do the opposite.
To be aggressive
in this situation.
Even if you decide to act as
a doormat in this situation,
it is because in that moment,
that's the best way to react.
>>REGINA: OK.
You led the life
force to inform--
>>KARIM: To tell you
there is a higher
order that will make you react.
If you do that once or
twice, all of a sudden,
you get this aspect
of wisdom that
will make you decide
which is the right path
to go because now, it's
like taking a step backwards
and looking forwards.
So you become
master of your own--
>>REGINA: Very
direct and simple.
And I love that.
It's very beautiful.
So what happens with
the notion of karma?
>>KARIM: Well, if you think
that karma is something that
is governing your life or
the Akashic records are
something that have to be, no.
If you go on the other side, all
the information in the universe
exists at the same time.
So there's nothing
affecting anything.
It's just the law of resonance.
Things are resonating together.
So whatever you put
your interest in,
you resonate with automatically.
So if you have karma, karma
means cause and effect.
If you are thinking of linear
time, karma exists for you.
It's a way of
understanding things.
But if you just go into
multidimensional time,
stop for a moment.
If you stop for a
moment, then karma
will have difficulty
dealing with you.
>>REGINA: Interesting.
>>KARIM: Yes.
Because how will it deal
with somebody who is just,
there's a circle.
You're walking
around the circle.
So I know where to catch you.
OK.
That's with karma.
But all of a sudden, if I'm
looking for you and you're
standing in the center.
So I don't see on
the circle anymore.
You're not here.
So I can't affect you anymore.
And then when you decide
to come out again,
you come out in the
direction you want,
and nothing has affected you.
>>REGINA: So you're saying,
even with the notion of karma--
So say the opposite.
Say you've been very
aggressive, and your aggression
has harmed people in the past.
And maybe this is again
been reflected out
through times, experiences.
Now you become aware
of it, and you're
questioning whether that's
not maybe the best way for you
to go anymore.
So you pause.
You just stop when your next
aggressive tendency happens.
Stop.
>>KARIM: And then think.
>>REGINA: Allow the
life force to come in.
Go into the other space maybe.
>>KARIM: Yes.
Think with that person.
Let's say a person is very
strong and very aggressive.
Now if I stop and
not do anything,
that person didn't
learn a lesson.
Because he knows he's
an aggressive person.
He expects me not to react.
But if I stop for a
moment and think, then
maybe with that person,
I should be aggressive
because he doesn't
expect it, and this
is what will change him.
Now we come to a weak person.
Everybody is hitting them on
the head, this weak person.
So you don't want to do that.
So all of a sudden,
you decide, no.
>>REGINA: Let me be
gentle and let them--
>>KARIM: Yeah.
So he will all of a sudden
look at you and say,
you won't understand.
He doesn't know how can a
person treat him that way.
So that you bring in the wisdom
from the multidimensionality
in that.
But remember--
>>REGINA: And that is making
that a resonant adjustment
that we call karma.
>>KARIM: It's you choose
what to interact with.
And by choosing what
to interact with,
you've chosen the
direction from where you
want the information to come.
You see, you are master
of your universe.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>KARIM: Don't think
always a past reincarnation
will dictate what I do here.
Karma will dictate
what I do here.
No.
All that is left
brain perception
trying to explain things from
completely different aspects
that don't have all that
into our time and space.
Remember, if there is
one reality, something,
one reality in the
multidimensional subconscious
space.
Now I want to perceive it
here through whatever means,
through any type of psychic
effect, whatever it means.
Now, for this reality to
come out, first of all,
it has to be time and space
stamped in our linearity
because it doesn't
have time and space.
So you have to give
it time and space.
And then it has
to be personified
because this is the duality.
I have to personify it.
How do I personify it?
I go to the database
in my brain, which
is culturally-based.
So I use my cultural
background to personify it.
Because if my left brain
doesn't personify it,
it cannot separate it
from the background.
Because in the
other subconscious,
you are part of the whole.
That's an aspect that we
don't have to go into today,
and that's the
female perception.
>>REGINA: But just
gives you a chance
to identify what the thing is.
>>KARIM: The thing is.
Now you culturally
defined it, and you put it
in your time and
space, and that's
your way of understanding.
But you should understand that
they are all translations.
Now you and I could
look at the same reality
in the multidimensional level.
You'll explain it in
your cultural background.
I'll explain it in my
cultural background.
And then all of a
sudden, I say I'm right,
and you say you're right,
and we start fighting.
In reality, we're both right.
We're both expressing
the abstract reality
on the other side.
So we should always know that
whenever people are speaking
about Akashic,
about reincarnation,
about things like that,
they're translating it
into time and space, plus
cultural personification.
>>REGINA: But by
taking that pause,
and maybe going to another
little dimensional state,
and allowing wisdom to
come forward and dictate
how you respond, that is
really the balancing of karma.
>>KARIM: That's the balancing.
>>REGINA: That's interesting.
>>KARIM: Yes.
>>REGINA: Creating
a new resonance.
>>KARIM: Actually, we don't have
time to go into that today--
>>REGINA: We're
actually out of time.
>>KARIM: Yeah.
Actually, this is one
of the strong points
of female energy as a form of
perception of qualities that we,
maybe some other time.
>>REGINA: Another conversation.
Now you got everybody curious.
>>KARIM: Yeah.
Another conversation
for another time.
Thank you, Regina.
>>REGINA: This has
been wonderful.
You really helped bring it
down to a level where people
can interact with
it and understand
some of the things they can
do practically in their world.
>>KARIM: You really
helped bring me down.
>>REGINA: That's my job.
>>KARIM: Yeah.
You brought me
down into reality.
>>REGINA: It was
beautiful though.
Very practical and
very helpful for us.
I appreciate it.
>>KARIM: You know, BioGeometry,
although it's up there,
it's a science that actually
has practical application
in everything.
>>REGINA: Well, yeah.
Just like we talked
about in the beginning
when we were talking about the
shape of the space for a person
who's autistic or not autistic.
>>KARIM: Yes.
So it's very materialistic,
practical, and everything.
>>REGINA: Thank you so much.
I appreciate it.
>>KARIM: Thank you, Regina.
>>REGINA: We will talk again.
We only scratched the surface.
>>KARIM: I'm very
happy to be with you,
and hoping to see you many more
times whenever I come this way.
>>REGINA: Well, that's a
fascinating conversation
and wonderful way
to view the world.
I think we can all feel this
when the geometry is out
of balance.
What we can do is now
start keeping it healthy
and bringing it back to a whole.
We just talked about some
of those little techniques.
To learn more about
Dr. Karim's work,
you can go to biogeometry.com.
Until next time, thank you for
joining us here on Open Minds.